== Brew day ==

Rikard helped out. Very convenient to have an extra set of hands. We
started around 11:30 and were completely finished (including cleaning
up) around 15:10.

=== Recipe mods ===

I used Safale Fermentis S-05 dry yeast instead of White Labs
California Ale. Instead of American Crystal 20L, I used Weyermanns
Carared (EBC: 40-50). And instead of American Crystal 60L, I used
Muntons Crystal Malt (EBC: 120-140).

Also replaced the 1.5g of LME with 1.2kg of DME.

I bumped up the Ginger from 30g to 40g and the Honey from 225g to
250g. Not sure why. =)


=== Brew ===

Steep and boil went smoothly. No hickups.

Cooled to 20C in 15 minutes or so. Strained to bucket and poured in a
couple of litres of preboiled and cooled water. We still came out a
few liters short so we panic boiled 3 litres extra and cooled it to
20C with the wort chiller. Bumped up to 10.5l.

OG: 1.062 @ 20C

I suspect that lack of aeration was the cause of the previous batch
(Double Your Pleasure IPA) ending up with such a high FG. With that in
mind I sanitized an extra bucket and poured the wort back and forth a
few times. It sure looked aerated to me.

Yeast hydration was well planned this time around. Sprinkled the dry
yeast over water at ~25C. Stirred it a bit 15 minutes later. Poured
over wort 15 minutes later.

=== Primary fermentation ===

Inspected fermentor at 01:30, i.e. roughly 10 hours after pitching
yeast. Lots and lots of bubbles.

== Sample ==

Took a 100 ml sample 2012-03-10, i.e. 2 weeks after brew day.

SG: 1.009

I suspect that'll end up being our FG.

The beer had a nice dark yellow colour. Pretty hazy, but I took the
sample with my wine thief and must have stolen quite a bit of yeast,
so no worries.

The smell was very similar to that of Sjätte Tunnan's mead. There was
a certain spicyness there, but I didn't really interpret it as
ginger.

The taste was more beery. A clear bitterness, similar to what I'd
expect from a wort sample prior to pitching yeast. Guessing it needs a
couple of weeks on bottle to get a good balance.

Very promising.


== Dry hopping (2012-03-13) ==

Boiled a hop bag. Filled with 20g of Chinook whole hops. Dropped into
fermenter. Finger's crossed. Also took the opportunity to do another
hydrometer reading.

FG: 1.009

== Bottling (2012-03-17) ==

About 11 litres in bucket. Dissolved 51 grams of sugar in 3 dl of
water. Put roughly 1 dl into a 5l party keg and filled it up directly
from fermentation bucket. (loving the spigots, they rock).

Transfered the rest into a spigot-less bucket holding the remaining 2
dl of disolved sugar. Siphoned to bottles. 5.33 litres in total: 1x1l,
6x0.5l and 4x0.3l.

I didn't bother tasting it at this point since I have a bit of a cold
and would probably not really pick up any flavours.


== Sampling (2012-04-06) ==

I've tried several bottles by now and this is a delicious beer. Would
love to drink it on a warm summer day.

The colour is a dark yellow, a bit red, almost orange. Pours with a
very nice head. The beer is very hazy and I should perhaps try
clearing it with gelatine next time around.

The smell is very distinct. Slightly gingery, but mostly spicy. Again,
it reminds me a lot of the mead at Sjätte Tunnan in Gamla Stan.

In the taste I find the same spicy notes, but to a lesser degree, and
given more balance by the hop bitterness. There's a lot of juniper in
there.

My main issue with the beer is that I'd like it to have a bit more of
a malt character. Guessing that the early honey addition only served
to make the beer dry. Could be a good idea to use less honey and more
extract next time.

Still, this is definitely the best brew so far. Very tasty. No
off-flavours. Very different.


== Note on carbonation (2012-05-26) ==

A month ago, or so, I had some friends over for some homebrew and
Street Fighter 2 on SNES. We finished the 5l mini keg in 3 hours or
so. It was _delicious_.

I remembered after writing the previous notes that I accidentally
poured out some of the sugar solution from the keg, so carbonation was
way lower than on bottle. Similar to a very weakly carbonated british
ale. Turns out that that was a good thing. The beer was very
drinkable.
