== Brew day (2012-03-10) ==

== Recipe mods ==
Scaled the recipe linearly down to ~9.5 litres.

Extract only, will do full mini-mash next time.

1.3 kg extra light _DME_

Yeast: 3724 Belgian Saison (Wyeast Activator)

Hops and candy sugar as per the recipe (but 50%).

=== Brew ===
Activated yeast about 40 minutes before boil started. That's a bit too
late according to the instructions; it should get 3 full hours to
activate. Guessing it'll be fine anyway.

Added 9 l water. Dissolved 1 kg DME while bringing to boil. Added
another 290 g DME after 30 minutes. Added Protafloc after 40 minutes.

Put in wort chiller at 60 minutes, added the aroma hops at 65 minutes,
flame out at 66 minutes. Gave it a 10 minute rest and then started
cooling.

Had about 6.8l after boil, so a bit over 2 litres lost. Strained into
fermenter and added preboiled and cooled water to top up to 9.5l.

Aerated by pouring back and fourth for a while.

Pitched yeast, slushed it all around a bit. Sealed.

OG: 1.058

Feeling pretty good about this. Done in less than 4 hours, including
cleaning up and all that cruft. The sample I took formed that same
weird layering at the bottom that I saw in the last two batches, even
though the hop bill was way lower this time. I don't think it's a
problem though (fingers crossed). Otherwise the sample was fairly
clear and had a bright light almost lager like colour.


== Sample (2012-03-24) ==

Two weeks later. The smell is very much like that of a Saison so the
yeast has definitely done something.

However, SG is 1.030, so we have a problem here.

According to Wyeast's FAQ, pitching within 3 hours of activation, or
even without activation, is not a problem. Only lag time should be
affected.

In response to this, I did the following:

* checked room temperature in the cellar (19 C, OK)
* gave the bucket a good swirl to recativate the yeast
* put a piece of wood under the bucket to insulate it a bit from the
  potentially cold concrete floor
* wrapped the bucket in a picnic blanket to further insulate it

I expect fermentation to have visibly restarted by tomorrow or
possibly the day after. If it hasn't, then I'll sprinkle a bag of
Safale S-05 dry yeast into the bucket and see if that helps.

== Inspection (2012-03-25) ==

Healthy bubble rate in the airlock. I think it'll be fine. Slightly
worried that I caused oxidization by swirling the bucket so
much. Should probably have used a sanitized spatula to gently stir up
the yeast instead. Anywho, it'll be fine.

== Inspection (2012-04-03) ==

Still bubbling away. About 2-3 seconds between each bubble. Feels like
it should've been done fermenting by now. This batch has been on
fermenter for almost 4 weeks now.

I read in Brewing Classic Styles (Zainasheff, Palmer) that Saisons
have a tendency to not ferment out as well as they should. The book
suggests adding dry champagne yeast or a neutral ale yeast to reach
the target FG.

I plan to take a sample some time in a few days. If it still hasn't
reached a reasonable FG, then I'll add some S-05 and see if that
helps.


== Inspection (2012-04-05) ==

SG is now at 1.020. Sprinkled a package of Safale S-05 over it and put
a thermometer between the bucket and the blanket. Seems to be a steady
19 C. This is a tad on the cool side, so I'd like to bring the bucket
up to the apartment. Not sure if I'll find room for it though.


== Inspection (2012-04-14) ==

The bugger is still slowly bubbling away, but the gravity is at 1.009,
so I guess it's done. It does taste like a saison, fwiw. I think
there's an off flavour in there, but no point in obsessing about that
until I've tried it fully carbonated and chilled. Will bottle soon.

== Dry hopping (2012-04-19) ==

Since this batch has been on primary for so awfully long, I suspect
there will be some weirdness in the final product. I figured I might
as well make it even more weird by dry hopping it.

Threw in 40 g of Hallertau. No hop bag. Curious to see what happens.

== Bottling (2012-04-22) ==

NTS: use a hop bag next time.

I had to siphon this of to the bottling bucket since the floating hops
would've clogged the spigot. That in turn meant I agitated the yeast
slurry a fair bit and got way more of that gunk into the bottles than
I would have wanted to.

5 litres on mini keg, about 3-4 litres on bottles.
